---
layout: single
title: "Chapter 4: CRISP-DM"
categories: Data
toc: true
---

<h3>What is CRISP-DM?</h3>

CRISP-DM (Cross Industry Standard Process for Data Mining) is a standard data mining process which has consistency, repeatability, and objectiveness. There are 6 phases in CRISP-DM, and by iterating these steps in the phases, it is possible to get data with better quality.

So, here are the six steps:
1. Business Understanding
2. Data Understanding
3. Data Preparation
4. Modeling
5. Evaluation
6. Deployment

<b><u>Business Understanding & Data Understanding</u></b>

As data scientists, you need to know the requirements and factors that affect people. It is important to create plans to achieve goals, and THIS IS THE BASIC STEP of all phases. This is the step where you need to understand the project objectives and requirements from a BUSINESS PERSPECTIVE.

The initial formulation may not be complete or optimal or feasible, so multiple iteration may be necessary for an acceptable solution formulation to appear. The goal is a successful data mining formulation that can be solved later by available data!

<b><u>Data Preparation</u></b>

This step can take you over 90% of the time, and IT IS IMPORTANT. The preparation covers all activities to construct the final dataset (data that will be fed into the modeling tools from the initial raw data. The step includes selection, consolidation, cleaning, transformation, and construction.

<b><u>Modeling</u></b>

Here, you need to select modeling techniques and calibrating their parameters. Typically, there are several techniques for the same data mining problem type such as decision trees, logistic regression, svm, etc (we will talk about these in later chapters!).

<b><u>Evaluation</u></b>

You then need to review the process and evaluate the performance. Ask yourself how well the model performs (from data mining point of view) and how well the model meets business needs (from business point of view).

After asking those, you need to choose the right evaluation metric such as accuracy with classification models or mean absolute error with regression models (we will also discuss these in later chapters!).

<b><u>Deployment</u></b>

Finally, it is time to determine how the results need to be utilized. The knowledge gained will need to be organized and presented in a way that the customer can use it. Depending on the requirements, the deployment phase can be as simple as generating a report or as complex as implementing a repeatable data mining process across the enterprise.
